## Blog post

Ramsay and Drucker's critique of Moretti should be taken to heart by digital humanists: any reliance on externally-produced data sets should be abolished in the field. Instead, each digital humanist will show the interpretive methods used to produce their unique data sets, and no two scholars will ever use the same data to conduct their research. Doing so will allow digital scholarship to fully embrace its humanities background, foregrounding subjective experience above all else. Established datasets are for scientists, and they have no place in humanities research. All data should be interpretively created.

digital humanities vs everyone

Digital humanists are naturally encouraged to interpretively create data sets while out in the field doing research but it does not mean that established datasets are to be completely disregarded. Digital humanist should create their own data and compare it alongside established datasets and compare the data that was collected by themselves to what other researchers find to see how different media studies view a certain case of study. The reason why the digital humanities still to this day cannot be categorized or labeled is due to the fact that it holds people that come together from different types of media studies and that is why it cannot be categorized. What makes the digital humanities are the fact that we interpret, collaborate and make new things and that is what makes up a group of digital humanists who they are. 

The digital humanities base itself on the idea of interpretation and it’s the way in which digital humanist interpret things that differentiates us from any other new or old media study groups. Digital humanists think outside the box like no other group of scholars ever will and this is what makes the digital humanities important in today's world because it is this type of thinking and scholarship which will allow people to move forward and do bigger and better things. For example Drucker in her paper Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display she states “Creating bar charts with ambiguity and degrees of uncertainty or other variables in them might cause champions of legibility and transparency some unease, but the shift away from standard metrics to metrics that express interpretation is an essential move for humanists and/or constructivists across disciplines.” It’s clear when reading Drucker’s paper that in this day and age a lot of people still rely on old ways of representing data to display their research, But the argument that a digital humanist like Drucker is making is that with the research that is being done today with the technology that is available, researchers are only crippling themselves by trying to display their data on a typical graph. This does not mean in any way that the research being done is in any way incorrect or should be disregarded by us, digital humanist. We as digital humanist should gather our own data and other researchers data and use our skills with computers to be able to showcase the research that is being done to the best ability so that other people may be able to interpret the data that is being presented as close to as it was intended to be.  

According to Duke University “the Digital Humanities are unified by its emphasis on connecting”. I personally believe that what this means is that digital humanist more often than not connect with other people to solve a problem or conduct research.  When the term digital humanities are thrown around what comes to mind is a group of people who have knowledge with different types of technologies that help people conduct and display research coming together to put all of their knowledge together. A person who can go out into the field do their research and interpret their work and still take into regard other peoples research at the same time and acknowledged other peoples outlooks on a certain subject or study is someone that should be seen as a Digital Humanist. For this reason, a digital humanist should not be completely disregarding data sets that may come from other forms of study or groups like scientists. We as digital humanist should learn to interpret data but at the same time still, take into consideration other forms of study and just acknowledge the fact that it is there and that it does exist. If a digital humanist can do that it will allow them to connect with other people and see things from different points of view and be able to conduct and present better research while out in the field. 

As digital humanists, we are constantly making new things and looking for new ways to advance the way research and data are done through technology.  In Drucker's paper, we see a series of graphs that are made to show different types of data in a more 3-dimensional type of way which made the data more capable of being interpreted differently by an individual that is looking at the data graphs. When Drucker's text is put into Voyant we see that some of the more commonly used words are subjective and interpretation. The conclusion that can be made from this is the fact that the data that is being created especially in the graphs that Drucker provided can be interpreted differently by different people. Data is subjective because different people will look at it differently based on their personal outlooks and this can be said for any type of data that is presented in any way no matter if it comes from within the DH or not and that is why we as Digital humanist shouldn’t disregard any sort of data that is presented to us while trying to conduct research of our own. 

In conclusion, we as Digital Humanists should be striving to get out there and conduct research in different ways and at the same time acknowledge the other forms of studies that exist and take into consideration the research and data that is being presented. The traits that make a person a Digital Humanist is a person who interprets, collaborate and make new things while out in the field trying to create their own interpretive data. 

<iframe style='width: 580px; height: 463px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=d82b3f9b36c78f0adb00f46c8e3a9719&visible=55&view=Cirrus'></iframe>

Work cited 

“Digital Humanities: Defining Digital Humanities.” LibGuides, guides.library.duke.edu/digital_humanities.

Drucker, Johanna. “Graphical Approaches to the Digital Humanities.” A New Companion to Digital Humanities, 2015, pp. 238–250., doi:10.1002/9781118680605.ch17.
